hey there 100 days of SEO my name is
John Doherty I'm the founder and CEO of
get credo comm veteran SEO and digital
marketer and you are watching hundred
days of SEO hope you enjoyed that Denver
intro I'm laughing because I just
recalled that one I wanted to confirm
that John Doherty our guest today on 100
days of SEO friends Friday but when I
wanted to confirm that John was from
Denver I googled John Denver and didn't
realize it that was not gonna get me
what I actually wanted oh that was silly
anyways hope you enjoyed the Denver
intro today we're talking to John
Doherty so he runs credo I want it in my
brain always call it get credo not that
that's the URL get credo com John is
awesome know so much and is passionate
the whole idea of credo is helping link
up businesses with Refuge Bolt SEO
partners SEO is fulled with so many scam
artists and so many people that are
consultants but have never actually done
anything for themselves people hire like
neil patel who's never ranked a site
other than neil patel dot-com and it's
like look for what from what they don't
know the game john knows the game well
enough not just to do it for himself and
for clients but also to understand and
vet people on behalf of clients i think
it's a really cool business model he's
really crushing it with it we're gonna
talk to john today about beginner SEO
mistakes advanced SEO mistakes and
everything in between i can't wait to
share this interview with you so let's
get into it
thanks for joining us my pleasure to be
here man thanks for having me on
absolutely absolutely so a couple quick
questions today first question and this
is something I think is so important
when it comes to SEO we have so many
tools it can be such an overwhelming
subject because they're so
anyways to get the same results right
there's like a million different tactics
and strategies when you look at a
project or look at achieving any sort of
goal whether that's ranking a brand new
website or starting your own side
project or if you're doing client work
or consulting how do you like think
about how do you conceptualize like what
to prioritize first like is there a
framework or like how do you think about
that yeah that's a great question and I
think you actually hinted at my answer
there in your question actually because
I what I always start with is what's the
goal like why the heck are we even doing
SEO in the first place right so and it
depends on what the website is and on
the industry it depends on the company
depends on your point of contact depends
on all those sorts of things right if
you're if you guys if you're working
with a client if you're a consultant if
your own website then it's you know what
resources you have
you know internal need to get it done
like are you technical and that she can
do that or do you need to hire someone
to do that you know do you have enough
pages are you targeting your keywords
are you building links like like all
that stuff goes into it but but
ultimately it comes back to what's your
goal are you going to we're not just
when Isis driving ratings and driving
traffic to drive rankings in traffic
unfortunately in the SEO world people do
sell that but but really what we should
be doing is if you're a consultant you
should be selling results right like
think about it the way I think about is
when I go into working with a client or
working on you know I think about it the
same as working on my own websites right
where I'm not just driving traffic to
drive traffic if I'm gonna put time
money effort into these things into
these properties I'm doing it to build a
business right and ultimately I'm doing
it to build revenue so at the end of the
day comes down to what are the highest
leverage things that we can do in order
to drive this business forward for some
companies it is traffic they're not
supportive business for others it's
leaves for others it's subscriptions or
free trials or whatever it is so you
kind of need to understand the business
itself and what drives the business
we're kind of leading indicators for the
ultimate indicators that lead to revenue
but really when I think about it through
that framework especially working with a
client they're like wait you're not just
talking about driving traffic or
keywords or something
like that I'm like right that's like
that's a means to an end and you know
that instantly changes the conversation
and the honestly changes what they're
willing to pay you they're willing to
pay you more because you're actually
talking about business right like
there's like ah I can get behind that I
can see I pay you this and I'm you know
and over time we're gonna make this if
we can hit these you know different you
know milestones along the way it's like
there you go right so versus if you're
just selling them traffic they're like
I'll pay you like you know I'll pay you
$50 now or versus you could tell me
you're gonna make me a hundred K right
like they might have no problem paying
you ten thousand dollars right you're
fifteen thousand dollars or something
like that because they're business
people so that's really where I where I
start when I start with a new client I
like to come in and say like what what
do I think are your biggest sneeze
before I even pitch the work right is it
technical is it keyword research is it
content is it you know links what have
you you know is it conversion straight
and so looking at all those things first
before we start settling on what are the
individual like you know like frameworks
need to work from and then where the
strategies we're gonna work on and then
one of the tactics we're gonna work on
within those strategies
nice do you ever feel like I I would
imagine this is true in every part every
type of marketing do you ever feel like
you end up just becoming like a there's
some phase where you were just like a
general business consultant like I need
to help you figure out yeah business oh
yeah absolutely I mean I actually think
about myself and just came from my days
distilled back in 2011 to 2013 where I
actually think about myself as more of
like a SEO or digital marketing
management consultant because you know
that honestly there are people that are
cheaper than me that can do better like
keyword research and that sort of stuff
at this point just because I'm not like
in it all day doing it you know I'm
running a business but a lot of my work
honestly with bigger companies
especially is helping you know from the
director level on down get buy-in from
you know their bigger boss is to
actually get the budget to implement the
things they need to implement to drive
the business forward it sometimes it
starts in the bottom right like a junior
point of contact you have to do a lot of
education help them get buy-in from
their boss so their boss to get buy-in
from their boss and it's a lot of kind
of learning to work across the levels of
a business
so yeah a lot of a lot of consulting
becomes that unless you're selling like
selling SEO services it doesn't become
that right and you just like go off and
you do your thing isn't your property
report if you're a consultant and you're
actually consulting with them and
teaching them and helping them you know
make their business better it definitely
turns into that a lot kind of changer
here's what are some of the mistakes you
see a lot of people making let's let's
focus maybe on beginners that's a great
question so personal mistakes that I
made I think on the bigger picture it
actually is somewhat similar to what I
just talked about in terms of not
thinking to not thinking back to the
strategy of like what are these tactics
and things that we're doing you're
actually going to get us right and
looking at the return on it you know
it's very easy to just say you know I'm
like productivity and kind of maximizing
my time and my energy it's very easy to
like do a ton of things and be like oh
man I was super productive today in this
like but it didn't actually do anything
right it didn't make sense within the
broader context of the business so I
think a lot of young SEO Saul Young
marketers lot of young digital marketers
if you've studied marketing you kind of
have that bigger picture but if you
never actually studied marketing or like
I've never taken working class in my
life right and I used to think I sweep
out of that and now I feel like it's
maybe a little bit of a liability I
would have been working I could if I had
on work I just if I went ahead and did
it now um you know can definitely learn
a lot but I think a lot of people
especially starting out don't think
about why are we doing this my first job
in SEO was as a link builder for an
agency and in Philadelphia working in a
really competitive space and basically
my job was buying links early 2011 my
job was buying links and so we contact
sites offer to pay them you know and
once they put the link up with the
ingridt actually needed weed you know
we'd pay them right we had like set up
recurring payments to these people to
keep the links live like that was but
you know that was those back know was a
different day right that was before
penguins before pianos before all of
these things right and so it was like I
mean it was it was a good learning
experience it was you know I would say
it was gray hat is what it was I'm gonna
call that black hat black hats you know
levels levels further but he was
definitely great hat right it was doubly
against her guideline
but you know so I don't know that I feel
bad about it necessarily I definitely
want to do it again right having bought
a link since early 2011 but like it was
you know it definitely gave me a good
education and also kind of taught me
like what worked and you know and what
didn't
so you know I think a lot of young SEO s
you know aren't kind of willing to do
that sort of thing and to learn that way
you know it did they listened a lot to I
mean even people like myself right like
I don't know everything I've been in the
game for a while but like I don't have
nearly as much experience as a lot of
other people and not as good of an SEO
is a lot of other people as well but
like don't just listen to what like I'm
saying or you're saying right or brand
or you know whoever you know you have to
go and you have to test it yourself
instead of just you know these are the
things that we're doing order growth is
because there's what may agency told me
to do if you actually become a better
SEO you need to go and test those things
yourself build a website right constant
learn to build links so I'm gonna get
you know exposure all that sort of stuff
yeah I keep it's so funny I keep this
keeps without any prompting like this
keeps coming up again and again and
again of just like you can't just do
click you can't just think like I'm
gonna read some blog posts learn how I
think SEO works get some clients or
whatever you have to like have your own
side projects I don't know a lot of se
owes who are granted look like if you
own and run an SEO company maybe you
have less time for side projects right
like I get that when you get higher up
here you become somebody who runs a
business you're a business builder and I
get that I still think you should be
trying to and I'm not I'm advising my
betters here so it's kind of
hypocritical or kind of silly but I
still think like if you have more money
than time you can still deploy money to
experiment and try projects and things
and I think there's something there but
there's nothing better than being able
to tell my clients at work like hey
there was a Google update here's how
here's what we're seeing across our
clients and across the industry but they
love when I could share like
here's what I'm doing I'm running an
experiment right now on one of my own
websites to try to pull it out of this
or pull out of that or here's why I
think my website got like a boost after
an update and like here's how we're
gonna try to deploy that on your website
like we have all of these ideas because
we're actually in the trenches we're
doers we're not just tight doesn't like
it when agencies are also going and as
we were talking about before we started
recording agencies that go and actually
build their own properties right I know
quite a few agencies that are also
running their own properties you know so
they're creating content they're
building links or doing technical SEO
they're doing you know they're doing
paid acquisition they're doing all those
things and so you know if you're willing
to do it for yourself and you're
successful doing it for yourself and how
much more success are you gonna be doing
it for clients so I would say I know I
know quite a few SEO that do and digital
markers that do have their own
properties I would say more should also
I met a team when I was at traffic
think-tank in Philadelphia I met this
team there's like four or five guys and
they're like well we're an agency am i
cool for your clients they're like no
we're our clients we just buy our own
stuff because then we don't to report to
anybody but each other and I was just
like oh I think that have they do work
with also with external clients but they
also have their own properties but they
have people on their team dedicated to
those properties what about like more
advanced SEO so people are there any
mistakes or anything you think that's
coming down the pipeline or anything you
think that like more advanced SEO s are
kind of missing right now that there's
either an opportunity or maybe some like
common mistakes well I think a lot of
more advanced SEO is more experienced a
SEOs forget what it's like to be a
learner so you know it's not like an SEO
specific you know answer but I think I
think we forget that you know what we
still have things to learn you know when
things are changing all the time and
there are some people that do a
phenomenal job of it you know keeping up
with people like Glen Gabe right
constantly sharing you know new stuff
that he's seen but there they're also a
lot of you know it can be very easy
kind of stuck in your ways I'm like well
this is work for a long time so it's
gonna keep on working forever which
isn't necessarily true so once again we
need to be testing these things need to
be testing you know new strategies new
ideas new stuff that's coming out from
Google or an algorithm change happens
what changed you know how do our
therefore our tactics within our
strategies need to change do our
strategies need to change right because
of these updates hopefully your
strategies are you know evergreen and
you know they're always gonna keep
working they might become a little bit
less effective so you need to tweak them
um so I think that's I think that's
really the biggest mistake that I see a
lot of I see I see myself making that
mistake let me put it that way
I've seen other people making that
mistake as well we need to remember what
it's like you know to be a learner to
get in the weeds and you know and do it
you know like for example recently I was
cleaning off some of all you know
taxonomies and like category pages and
information architecture on the Credo
site and you know I've always had
developers right when I worked in house
or you know where clients like they have
developers I'm like we need to do a you
know we need to eliminate these these
things from the database we need to
redirect into here and make sure these
pages redirect like this like all right
cool we'll get it done right and then
basically they come back and they're
like ok here it is on staging is this
right I basically look at it verify it
yeah do it I had to go I had to learn
how to write you know regex to basically
redirect you know everything duper like
layers deeper within these URLs to make
sure they redirected to the new ones
correctly one-to-one and like I was
telling my my colleague here this
morning that like man I worked on I did
that for about four hours yesterday
cleaning all of that up I've been
working on it for a couple weeks and
like my brain is exhausted today but I
learned so much right it was really fun
to go back and be working hard asking
people for you know for for advice and
for answers and helping troubleshoot
stalk people smarter than me and it was
it was really really cool so I think we
need to remember you know to do to do
that sort of stuff yeah especially just
because kind of like well how we kick
things off or so like there's so many
things that affect search right there's
200 ranking factors and really if we
think one of those ranking factors
they're really just 200 things that make
the internet better for humans and
there's a lot of ways to make the
internet better for humans I I can
say from personal experience recently
one thing that I've gotten really
frustrated with myself was like I've
always been a content and links guy so
it would be like John Madden like we got
into an argument and I just kept yelling
the saint's no matter what you said I
would just yell the same thing back at
you like no matter what our water yeah
copy and paste like no matter what our
clients problems were I was like better
content better topic clusters more links
and then eventually you're like you
start to see and they had great results
don't get me wrong but I was just like
wait like I'm not doing anything with
structured data that seems like that's a
misstep I'm not doing like I'm missing
there's all these other like nuances and
different things that I just was
starting to realize that I was becoming
very one-dimensional and then eventually
when content and links don't help what
what am I gonna do how am I gonna help
great alright well the interesting thing
there Brendan is that you're not wrong
either right like right websites do need
better content they do need better topic
you know topic clusters topical
Authority they do need more and better
links right from you know from sites
that make sense they need all of that
stuff so the site doesn't have any of
that like going and talking about
structured data and those sorts of
things you have to set the base before
you can really build from there right if
you don't pour a foundation before you
build a house like a house isn't gonna
you know be nearly as secure as one
where you did for a foundation I say
this as someone with who owns an 1895
house that didn't have a concrete
foundation port but that's how they did
it back in the day you know but it lends
itself to other challenges so you know
but if you go and you're like okay let's
put on a new roof but like all your
walls are cracked it's not gonna you
know it's not gonna do you any good
to like fix the walls fix your
foundation and then build from there so
I actually think of it as a you know
something like these are the three
things that I do it's not it's not an
either/or like I leave you this or you
do this it's a both/and sort of thing
it's like we have to do this once again
it's that strategy if we start here then
we do this and then you build into those
things structured data that sort of
stuff something else I see is that
people will kind of take different types
of websites and try to apply the same
strategies to them so strategies you
employee on a b2b SAS website are going
to
very different that you employ on a
million-plus page e-commerce website you
know b2c e-commerce website so I think
we also need to be open to the fact that
like you know what these strategies are
gonna change how we you know how we kind
of chained together what we're
implementing how we do SEO how we create
content how that works in with the
information architecture all that stuff
it changes based on the type of site as
well and we can't forget that as you
know as SEO
yeah definitely agree talk to you really
quickly as we're kind of wrapping up
you mentioned credo tell me talk to me
more about credo gas-soaked readers a
company that I started working full time
on about three and a half years ago I
actually started it February's February
2013 so it's been six years now and it
was a side project basically I started
it to help companies that are looking to
hire SEO and digital marketing companies
help them hire the right ones for their
business so there's a few parts to that
one is that they don't hire people that
don't have the qualifications that you
know are going to be able to get them
results some people are really good at
you know selling the dream but I
actually good at getting the results the
second one is helping the good good
agencies and consultants helping them
get more work write better clients
better paying clients that sort of stuff
but then also helping them helping the
businesses really streamline the process
of finding and hiring the right provider
so today we've helped twenty twenty two
hundred plus businesses probably around
twenty three hundred now
and you know I mean generated tens of
millions of dollars and you know in
qualified leads you know a percentage of
that you know these percentage of that
has closed and to work for the people on
our platform so you know we're investing
in we're changing our vetting process
where you know working on a lot of
technical upgrades to the site and have
a lot of big stuff coming up this year
but we take a very high touch
white-glove approach you know to helping
clients find and hire the right the
right people that we vetted out that we
know do good work we've seen a couple of
their clients and spoke with them on the
phone you know we kind of go through the
three levels it's you know how good is
your work how professional are you you
know as a company and then also kind of
like a culture you know
culture chat culture call where we can
also explain more about kind of how how
credo work so we kind of do that those
multiple levels looking across not just
like you know we're not testing people
on their like SEO knowledge or something
like that right you're not
recommendations that go to their clients
but I you know but basically all these
other things that go into what makes
someone you know good at what they do or
what you know what basically tells us
that they're more likely to be doing
good work than you know than someone
else and then over time as they're
saying the clients are getting feedback
from their clients we're still we're
constantly vetting them out as they go
nice that's definitely yeah rank just
because you can rank for number one for
Chicago SEO expert does not mean you can
actually do anything but that's usually
the qualification right that's usually
how people start putting their lists
togethers they're googling s exactly
wherever they are and I actually have
actually have a blog post about should
you hire the person that ranks number
one for you know for their own queries
like maybe maybe not like you got a look
at their links you look at how they're
doing it right if they're ringing for
Chicago SEO a local keyword are they
gonna be able to drive your results for
your like multinational you know shoes
e-commerce site maybe but maybe not
right you got to look at what's their
experience they do if they work with
before and that sort of stuff so there's
also a big education process for clients
which I'm sure you know you've come
across as well yeah absolutely awesome
John I appreciate your time thanks so
much for joining us for a hundred days
of SEO my pleasure thanks for having me
alright so I hope that was super helpful
for you I really enjoyed talking to John
again you can check out John and get
credo comm this episode was brought to
you by flywheel that's where I host all
of my most important WordPress websites
I think they're fantastic I would
recommend you check them out 100 days of
seo.com slash flywheel will take you
there also don't forget to join our one
ranking away 30-day SEO challenge it's
all of the most important things that I
know it will completely change how you
think about SEO I've heard that from
beginners and even my friends who
probably know more about SEO than even I
do Ellie at the very least it'll
probably make you spit your coffee out
read
and looking at the gifts and stuff so
you'll enjoy it again that's just that
100 days of SEO or 100 days of SEO comm
/ subscribe
I've been written up for don't forget to
work hard be nice people and don't get
too lost trying to create something that
matters
[Music]